start   2019 09 sep 29 20:10 00 00 
finish  2019 09 sep 29 21:50 00 00 

i want to go to space 

all kind of difficulties 

the first one that comes to mind possible the 
biggest is it i have no idea how to build a rocket 

so where should i start?

a good first step is probably going to be to look 
at the blueprints of every successful rocket ever 
built 

every part of those designs was base of experience 

thousands of iterations of trial and error 

encountering and overcoming problems 

so matching my plans to theres as close as possible 
seems to make sense right

that kind of thinking is called reasoning by 
analogy

assuming anything isnt a great idea 

alternative to reasoning by analogy 

reasoning from first principles 

aristotle, immanuel kant, (binetical) 

mathematical and scientific taught

elon musk founder of tesla and space x

resoning from first principles means questioning 
everything until you reduce the problem to its  
most basic truths

you work those out and then build from there  

it removes all assumptions from the equation and 
allows you to deal with the problem and its most 
fundamental form   

reasoning from first principles 

is there a better way of doing things?

he's main problem was financial one, rockets is 
really expensive, but why they are expensive?

he found that a huge amount of a cost was being 
charge by little man companies providing the 
components use to build rocket 

so by vertically integrating and handling the 
sourcing of all components internally

he was able to reduce a significant amount of this 
cost

on top of the middle man expense he realize that 
the rockets that never reuse each time this 
insanely expensive rockets is built it was 
destroyed after launch

he thought that seems crazy, why?

why not land the rocket after launch and re-use 
it?

reasoning by analogy would say that landing a 
rocket nasa and soviet union failed and not even 
attempted to do, its impossible 

space x completed the first successful landing 
buster in december 2015

just by reasoning from first principles 

just by asking why 

in a competitive market

this kind of approach is key to broadening our 
horizons by challenging conventional wisdom
================================================== 